>> A new study on longevity
says humans could live up to 150
years old.
But does the science
back up this claim?
Our expert weighs in
and shares what he says
is the right way to
do your own research.
This is "Gaia News."
[SHIMMERING]
A recent study by Singapore
based biotech firm GERO
examined the changes
in blood cell counts
and number of steps taken by
test subjects in the US, UK,
and Russia.
By studying these
variables, they
found that people did not
steadily decline as they aged,
but their resilience, or
ability to bounce back
from illness and injury
stepped down over time.
And barring disease
or accidents,
the maximum lifespan
would be 150 years old
when the body's capacity for
resilience will be exhausted.
Bill Andrews, president
and CEO of Sierra Sciences
has studied anti-aging and
telomeres for 30 years.
He is skeptical
about this new claim.
>> There has been at
least five publications,
and oftentimes when I speak
at conferences I'll show those
publications in the last 25
years that have done a much
better job of narrowing it down.
And they have all come down
to somewhere between 120
and 125 years.
OK, so this new study that's
come out that claims 150
isn't actually saying that
they've extended it out
from 125 to 150.
Just the accuracy
of their data is not
allowing them to
give narrow answers.
And when they
contacted the press
to make this press
release about their study
they focused on the 150.
>> If this is much
ado about nothing,
why do stories like this
one make so many headlines?
>> Most of the stories get
published because the authors
of studies decided to
get some attention.
So some scientists
would do a study.
They will make press releases
because they want attention.
And the news agencies
pick them up.
don't know any better.
They think, well, this must
be some exciting, big, new
development.
And then the real
scientific community
usually laughs it off
because oftentimes it's
just repeating studies that
were done 20, 25 years earlier.
And the authors didn't
even know about it.
They've exaggerated their data.
Oftentimes they can't
reproduce their data.
So I always discourage
people from actually
relying on news
stories, as opposed
to going to like a scientific
database on scientific peer
reviewed literature.
>> Many people practice
conclusion hunting,
cherry picking information
from the internet to make
a hypothesis correct.
How can the layman
do real research?
>> It's not easy.
OK, so one, you have to
learn statistical theory.
You have to learn how to
do critical data analysis.
You have to have common sense.
You have to be able to
read a paper, a study,
a scientific study, and
be able to understand when
the scientists
themselves don't know
what they're talking about.
But you also have to know
how to look at the data
that they publish
and make sense of it.
OK, so statistical theory
helps out a lot there,
because just a tremendous
number of top scientists
don't understand
statistics well enough
and totally misinterpret what
like p equals 0.05 means.
There's so many flaws in
the scientific community
that you really, in
order to know it,
you have to learn
this stuff yourself.
Going to something like
PubMed, P-U-B-M-E-D,
which is the government database
of scientific peer reviewed
publications is the best
source of information.
Definitely not the news.
Definitely not the
tabloids or social media.
>> Many researchers and
scientists will send you
their studies for free.
All it takes is an email.
>> When people contact me for
papers I just don't even think
about it.
I just don't hesitate.
I just instantly send
it without even trying
to find out who they are.
So it's like-- and I think
most scientists are like that.
They want to get their
papers out there.
>> Meantime, Bill Andrews
believes telomere lengthening
is key to fighting aging.
A telomere is the end of
a chromosome that protects
your chromosomes from damage.
When a cell divides,
the telomeres shorten.
>> But if you have the perfect
genetics and lead the perfect
lifestyle, you still have a
theoretical maximum lifespan
of 125.
Lengthening telomeres is, I
think, the only way that we
can break that threshold.
Lengthening telomeres is
going to be something that's
absolutely essential to do.
But it might not be
the only thing to do.
And we won't know until we
actually lengthen telomeres.
>> Scientists around the world
are researching the effects
of telomere lengthening
to fight aging.
Bill Andrews says
right now funding
is the only thing getting
in the way of testing
telomere lengthening in humans.
But in our lifetime, we could
see humans live and thrive
well over 100 years old.
For a new perspective,
this is "Gaia News."
For more information
on this topic,
check out this content on Gaia.